Overview

This is a voice-activated personal assistant that performs tasks such as setting reminders, checking the weather, reading the news, and adding events to Google Calendar. It integrates with speech recognition and text-to-speech libraries to create an interactive experience.

Features

Speech Recognition: Uses Google Speech Recognition to understand voice commands.

Text-to-Speech: Uses pyttsx3 to provide voice responses.

Weather Forecast: Fetches real-time weather data from OpenWeather API.

News Updates: Reads top headlines using NewsAPI.

Reminders: Sets reminders and alerts the user after a specified time.

Google Calendar Integration: Adds events to Google Calendar using Google Calendar API.

Prerequisites

Ensure you have Python installed on your system. You can check your Python version by running:

python --version

Installation

Step 1: Clone the Repository

git clone https://github.com/your-repository/voice-assistant.git
cd voice-assistant

Step 2: Install Required Python Packages

Run the following command to install all necessary dependencies:

pip install SpeechRecognition pyttsx3 requests schedule google-auth google-auth-oauthlib google-auth-httplib2 google-api-python-client

Step 3: Set Up API Keys

OpenWeather API (for weather data):

Sign up at OpenWeather.

Get your API key and replace your_openweather_api_key in the assistant.py file.

NewsAPI (for news updates):

Sign up at NewsAPI.

Get your API key and replace your_newsapi_key in assistant.py.

Google Calendar API (for event scheduling):

Go to the Google Cloud Console.

Create a new project and enable the Google Calendar API.

Create OAuth 2.0 Client ID credentials.

Download the credentials.json file and place it in the same directory as assistant.py.

Usage

Run the assistant script using:

python assistant.py

Commands you can say:

"Check the weather in [city]"

"Read the news"

"Set a reminder for [task] in [time] seconds"

"Add event [event name] on [date-time]"

"Exit" (to stop the assistant)
